Security in Timestream for LiveAnalytics
Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority. As an AWS customer, you benefit from a data center
and network architecture that is built to meet the requirements of the most security-sensitive
organizations.
Security is a shared responsibility between AWS and you. The shared responsibility model describes
this as security of the cloud and security in the cloud:
• Security of the cloud – AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS
services in the AWS Cloud. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely. The
Security 
Amazon Timestream Developer Guide
effectiveness of our security is regularly tested and verified by third-party auditors as part of the
AWS compliance programs. To learn about the compliance programs that apply to Timestream
for LiveAnalytics, see AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program.
• Security in the cloud – Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use. You
are also responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your organization's
requirements, and applicable laws and regulations.

Data Protection
Timestream for LiveAnalytics encrypts all data at rest and in transit by default. Timestream for
LiveAnalytics provides data encryption for data at rest. Timestream for LiveAnalytics uses an AWS
owned AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) key to encrypt all the data.
Amazon Timestream employs multi-level security through access control, encryption and VPC endpoints
to help control access to your data. All data in Amazon Timestream is encrypted at rest with
AWS-owned keys by default. If you choose to use your own customer master key, Timestream
integrates with AWS KMS to provide that capability. This way, data stored at rest, including file
metadata, query results and other data stored in Amazon Timestream, is secured using encryption keys
managed in AWS KMS.

Timestream Identity-Based Policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as
the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Timestream for LiveAnalytics supports
specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON
policy, see IAM JSON Policy Elements Reference in the IAM User Guide.

Actions
Administrators can use AWS JSON policies to specify who has access to what. That is, which principal can
perform actions on what resources, and under what conditions.
The Action element of a JSON policy describes the actions that you can use to allow or deny access in a
policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. There are some
exceptions, such as permission-only actions that don't have a matching API operation. There are also
some operations that require multiple actions in a policy.

Resource Types
The Resource element specifies the object or objects to which the action applies. Statements must
include either a Resource or a NotResource element. As a best practice, specify a resource using its
Amazon Resource Name (ARN). You can do this for actions that support a specific resource type, known
as resource-level permissions.
For actions that don't support resource-level permissions, such as listing operations, use a wildcard (*) to
indicate that the statement applies to all resources.

Logging and Monitoring
Monitoring is an important part of maintaining the reliability, availability, and performance of Timestream
for LiveAnalytics and your other AWS solutions. AWS provides the following monitoring tools to watch
Timestream for LiveAnalytics, report when something is wrong, and take automatic actions when
appropriate:
• Amazon CloudWatch monitors your AWS resources and the applications you run on AWS in real
time. You can collect and track metrics, create customized dashboards, and set alarms that notify
you or take actions when a specified metric reaches a threshold that you specify.
• AWS CloudTrail captures API calls and related events made by or on behalf of your AWS account
and delivers the log files to an Amazon S3 bucket that you specify. You can identify which users
and accounts called AWS, the source IP address from which the calls were made, and when the
calls occurred.

Compliance Validation
Third-party auditors assess the security and compliance of Amazon Timestream as part of multiple AWS
compliance programs. These include SOC, PCI, FedRAMP, HIPAA, and others.
To learn whether an AWS service is within the scope of specific compliance programs, see AWS Services
in Scope by Compliance Program and choose the compliance program that you are interested in. For
general information, see AWS Compliance Programs.
You can download third-party audit reports using AWS Artifact. For more information, see Downloading
Reports in AWS Artifact.
Your compliance responsibility when using Amazon Timestream is determined by the sensitivity of your
data, your company's compliance objectives, and applicable laws and regulations. AWS provides the
following resources to help with compliance:
• Security and Compliance Quick Start Guides – These deployment guides discuss architectural
considerations and provide steps for deploying security- and compliance-focused baseline
environments on AWS. 